12 years at the pinnacle of formula 19
wins and forty two podiums mark webber
now switches his attention to previously
unfinished business you know that just a
feedback on the boost it's like
balancing till has the Prophet such as
the offshore terms how
after a terrifying accident Atlas south
in 1999 this is the behind-the-scenes
story of marks passage from formula 1
he's returned to the mall
the brazilian grand prix marked the end
of an era for Mark Webber it was his
final race in Formula One since 2007 the
Australian has been with the red bull
racing team and in that time collected
three third-place championship finishes
parting ways after seven years was never
going to be easy so the team got
together for one final celebration in
South Paolo's famous forgot a chow
restaurant to celebrate the Australians
contribution to the team and to the
sport
well here we are last time with myself
having a meal with the whole team here
at infinity rebel racing at provenance
or tradition that we come here anyway
but tonight it's my turn to bring the
team out for dinner I've been with a lot
of these guys and girls for a long time
and yeah it's just a bit of a thank you
really team principal of red bull racing
Christian Horner afterwards expressed
his gratitude to mark for all his
efforts with the team over the last
several years we've got a huge amount of
the team obviously you know he has a
great feel for the car he's been a very
integral in the development of the car
and of course he's played a huge part in
the constructors World Championships the
four championships that we've that we've
achieved together with his nine
victories it is difficult to imagine you
know life without him he has played a a
very very important role of course he'll
be missed you know he's now offered to a
new challenge but a very skilled driver
he will adapt you know very quickly
24-hour racing is you know different
challenge in itself and their Porsche
have a great track record a great
history you know in endurance racing but
they're up against some very strong
opponents so for sure they're going to
have a steep learning curve and it'll
take some time but certainly Mark Webber
will be pushing them very very hard with
the pre weekend celebrations out of the
way race day quickly rolled around it
was time for Mark to head to the circuit
the interlagos for one last time as a
top-flight Formula One driver
feel actually great feel the last one
for many just feels like another race to
don't feel anything I think when I
start with my gear on I'll be getting
the calf the last time doing everything
for the last hole in Formula One and
also open we lost you know no open
wheels is what it was all about for me
for so long I've done 15 ideas racing
open we lost a close that chapter
another door opens me but the same golf
galaxy in the steps to get the champagne
and that's it Brazil you know they've
had wrongfully forever the fans are
awesome absolutely awesome so passionate
here because of all the wall Chairman's
have had in the past appear chaos
edapally quartet in error I always used
to love watching this race on TV to
discuss we did a rain is always a mixed
up our previous hanukkah hopefully
straight fought off not too many more
grey hairs for the last race despite his
high spirits this was an emotional race
for mark and one he wanted to perform
well on
after setting the fastest lap he
eventually brought the curtain down on
his Formula One career with a podium in
second place and a red bull racing one
to finish
having said his goodbyes to the team and
paddock after his final race mark came
back to the hotel to reflect on the last
12 years in Formula One back at the room
after a pretty pretty special race last
grand prix f1 tight turnaround for a
flight now yeah it was as good as I
would have hoped really I couldn't have
wished for to got a whole lot better got
a fastest lap second place got the
bubbles and now next chapter yeah I've
got to be the motion on the grid when I
got in the car which was weird i didn't
feel I'll see that one coming but yeah i
welled up a little bit on the grid but
after that no problem onto the job and
yeah really really nice last day I
couldn't have actually forgot much
better to be honest to have the
longevity of Korea and to have the
results that I've had I never ever would
have expected those it's been through
graph it's a lot of hard work openly
admit there's been some guys clearly
with with more talent and some of those
guys worked hard and they beat me some
of the guys didn't work hard and I be
them they had more talent but they
didn't apply himself so I'm proud of
that this chapter has been so massive in
my life and it's now giving me a
sensational springboard across to such
an incredible brand with Porsche I'm
just so proud to be able to launch
across to such as you know the the most
famous sports car brand the world I mean
I'm a portion us I love them here we're
going to have a tough times I think
we're gonna have to work incredibly hard
all the normal rules are gonna apply but
I think I can bring a lot to the party
mostly now pretty pretty tied then long
year long career so yeah I need some
time out but yeah just away from rattle
guns and engines but he will be back
next time on return to LeMond mark
leaves formula 1 behind and gets his
first taste of the all new Porsche 919
hybrid lmp1 car as he heads to poor
turnout to meet the team and spend two
days in the seat start his preparation
over 2014 24 hours